What is a Process?

A process can be thought of as an instance of a program in execution. We called this an ‘instance of a program’, because if the same program is run lets say 10 times then there will be 10 corresponding processes.

Moving ahead, each process has its own unique process ID through which it is identified in the system. Besides it own ID, a parent’s process ID is also associated with a process.

A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition. Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action.

A signal is just like an interrupt; when it is generated at the user level, a call is made to the kernel of the OS, which then acts accordingly.

There are two types of signals:

    Maskable: signals which can be changed or ignored by the user (e.g., Ctrl+C).
    Non-Maskable: signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user. These typically occur when the user is signaled for non-recoverable hardware errors.

Signals List

The table below contains some common signals and their associated meanings.
Signal 	Description
SIGHUP 	Hang-up detected on controlling terminal or death of controlling process.
SIGINT 	Issued if the user sends an interrupt signal (Ctrl + C).
	
SIGQUIT 	Issued if the user sends a quit signal (Ctrl + D).
	
SIGFPE 	Issued if an illegal mathematical operation is attempted.
	
SIGKILL 	If a process gets this signal, it must quit immediately and will not perform any clean-up operations.
SIGTERM 	Software termination signal (sent kill by default).
	
SIGALRM 	Alarm clock signal (used for timers).

